---
layout: handout
title: Getting Started Todo App Handout 2
category: handout
abstract: This handout will help guide you through building your application with Backbone and Backbone.Marionette.
---

###Lets Start building the Todo App!

When you start to think about the todo application, how can you break it up into pieces?

Lets start with a Todo's simplest part, the actual Todo and its model representation.

###Todo Backbone Model

Start By Opening `TodoModel.js` from `/public/js/models`

In `TodoModel.js` we will want to require backbone so you may extend its model
Backbone's model can have default's, so let's create a completed default to track its state.
There should also be a title, and a created time.

    define(['backbone'],function(Backbone){
      'use strict';

      return Backbone.Model.extend({
        defaults: {
          title     : '',
          completed : false,
          created   : 0
        }
      });
    });

Now that we have our model, lets move on to the pieces that reflect these data models.


###Backbone Collection

We will need a way to keep track of a List of Todos.

  Lets Open `TodoCollection.js` from `/public/js/collections`

    define(['backbone','models/Todo', 'lib/backbone-localStorage'],function(Backbone,Todo) {
      'use strict';

        return Backbone.Collection.extend({
          model: Todo,
          localStorage: new Backbone.LocalStorage('todos-backbone'),

          comparator: function( todo ) {
            return todo.get('created');
          }
        });
    });

Here we require and attach the Todo Model, we also override the comparator method which is used to maintain the collection in sorted order.

We want to sort the Todo's by their created date when we `fetch` the collection.

Great Now that we got the data stuff out of the way, Lets take a look into the Views of the application.

###Marionette Views

What kind of views would we need to make up a Todo?

####ItemView

We will need a Todo ItemView, for displaying an individual todo item.

Before we create any views we will want to set up our templates modules

Create `templates.js` in `/public/js` and place an empty define block inside

    define(function(require){
      "use strict";
      return {
        // an example entry
        todoItemView : require('text!templates/todoItemView.tmpl')
      };
    });

Okay back to the **ItemView**

Lets Create `TodoItemView.js` in `/public/js/views`

In `TodoItemView.js` we will want to require Marionette this time and extend its ItemView.

    define(['marionette','templates'], function (Marionette,templates) {
      "use strict";

      return Marionette.ItemView.extend({

        template : templates.todoItemView,

        tagName : 'li',

        events : {
          'click .destroy' : 'destroy'
        },

        initialize : function() {
          this.bindTo(this.model, 'change', this.render, this);
        },

        destroy : function() {
          this.model.destroy();
        }
      });
    });

Backbone views are used to reflect what your applications' data models look like.

Looks like we referenced a todoItemView template. Maybe we should create it?

  Maybe something like this?

    <div class="view">
      <label><%= title %></label>
      <button class="destroy"></button>
    </div>

We also have a **bindTo** call on the model's change state. This will call the **render** method when a model changes.
The `this` being passed at the end is the context of which to call the function passed in as the third parameter.
Do you know what a context would refer to?

We also define the **destroy** method to get rid of the model. We link the click event of that button to remove the model from the collection.

###What else do we need?

####CompositeView

We will also need a Composite View. Something to render a template around a CollectionView of ItemViews.

The Composite View combines an ItemView and a CollectionView allowing you to display collections of Items easily.
CompositeViews excel at rendering a branch-leaf, hierarchical structures of data, but also just render
templates around collections in a very handy manner.

This `TodoCompositeView.js` should also live in `/public/js/views`

    define(['marionette','templates','views/TodoItemView'], function (Marionette,templates,TodoItemView) {
      "use strict";

      return Marionette.CompositeView.extend({

        template : templates.todosCompositeView,

        itemView : TodoItemView,

        itemViewContainer : '#todo-list'

      });
    });

  Here we use another template (we will need to add todoCompositeView.tmpl to our /public/templates.js),
  the Todo Item View, and the container for the itemView's. The container will need the id `#todo-list`.

  We also need a HeaderView So we can create todos to add to the list

    define(['marionette','templates'], function (Marionette,templates) {
      "use strict";

      return Marionette.ItemView.extend({
        template : templates.header,
        ui : {
          input : '#new-todo'
        },
        events : {
          'keypress #new-todo':		'onInputKeypress'
        },
        onInputKeypress : function(evt) {
          var ENTER_KEY = 13;
          var todoText = this.ui.input.val().trim();

          if ( evt.which === ENTER_KEY && todoText ) {
            this.collection.create({
              title : todoText
            });
            this.ui.input.val('');
          }
        }
      });
    });

  Seems simple enough. We Attach a header template which looks to have an input with an ID #new-todo. We assign a callback to this inputs keypress event handler in the event hash.

  Trim the result and check if its an enter key press, if so, we call create a todo in the collection.

  Wait, What? How can we create a new todo using this.collection.create() where did this.collection come from?

  - It must have been initialized with it somewhere?

###Marionette.Application

Open `app.js` from `/public/js`

This will instantiate the new marionette application, attach the main app regions, and fetch the list of todos.
This allows us to centralize the start of our application logic.

The `addInitializer` method allows us to perform special tasks when the application is started using `app.start()`

    define(
      [
        'marionette',
        'collections/TodoCollection',
        'views/TodoListCompositeView'
      ],
      function(Marionette, TodoCollection, TodoListCompositeView){
        "use strict";

        var app = new Marionette.Application(),
            todoCollection = new TodoCollection();

        app.addRegions({
          header : '#header',
          main   : '#main',
          footer : '#footer'
        });

        app.addInitializer(function(){
          var todoListView = new TodoListCompositeView({
            collection : todoCollection
          });
          app.main.show(todoListView);

          todoCollection.fetch();
        });

        return app;
    });


This application module can be started in `main.js`, the first entry into our application. Require `"app"` and call `app.start()`

###The App Module, The Model, Its Collection and Its Views have been built, What's left?

- Basic routing (Marionette.AppRouter)

- A FooterView so we can display the todo stats

These pieces add some flair to your TodoApp but are best left to your own exploration. Let's reconvene and see where you are.

If you have time, look to see how our TodoMVC application looks

### [Marionette TodoMVC](http://jsoverson.github.com/todomvc/labs/dependency-examples/backbone_marionette_require/)

---

###<a href='http://backbonejs.org/'>Backbone Docs</a>
###<a href='https://github.com/marionettejs/backbone.marionette/tree/master/docs/'>Backbone.Marionette Docs</a>
###<a href='https://github.com/jeromegn/Backbone.localStorage/'>LocalStorage Plugin</a>
