---
layout: handout
title: Getting Started Todo App Handout 1
category: handout
abstract: This handout will help guide you through the process of laying out your new javascript application. We will be using some newer technologies such as RequireJS, Backbone, Marionette, Sass, Grunt, Jasmine, And Twitter Bootstrap.
---

###When starting a new project, what do you think of first? Where do you begin?

Lets start by creating a project root directory.  Any directory will do.

- Now that we have a project what now? (we'll talk about directory structure in a bit)

Lets create the index --> `index.html`
Now add the HTML5 doctype and base markup

`<!DOCTYPE html>

    <html>
      <head></head>
      <body>Hello World!</body>
    </html>`

Open the file and you should see a *Hello World!*

Now we will be building our application with RequireJS, an AMD loader.
Allowing us to split our project up into manageable pieces. (http://requirejs.org/)

###How do we include RequireJS into our project?
###Where do we place the RequireJS library?

Since we aren't looking to maintain this library lets put it in a directory that will only contain third party
libraries. Create a lib directory in the root of your project and place RequireJS inside. --> /lib
This is where all of your 3rd party libraries should reside, keeping it clear what to maintain

Along with RequireJS you will need a `main.js` config file, lets create this and place it in a /js directory

This main.js file will define the application (http://requirejs.org/docs/api.html)

Heres a base main.js

<pre>
  <code>
    require.config({
      paths : {
        underscore : 'lib/underscore',
        backbone   : 'lib/backbone',
        marionette : 'lib/backbone.marionette',
        jquery     : 'lib/jquery'
      },
      shim  : {
        underscore : {
          exports : '_'
        },
        backbone   : {
          exports : 'Backbone',
          deps    : ['jquery', 'underscore']
        },
        marionette : {
          exports : 'Backbone',
          deps    : ['backbone']
        }
      },
      deps  : ['jquery', 'underscore']
    });
  </code>
</pre>

###Now how do we link requireJS and its config?

Easy, place `<script data-main="js/main" src="lib/require.js"></script>` in the head of your `index.html`

- Lets grab all the other essential pieces of our application and place then in /lib as well, right?

  - **[Underscore](https://github.com/documentcloud/underscore) ([underscorejs.org](https://github.com/documentcloud/underscore))**
    - A utility-belt library for JavaScript that provides a lot of the functional programming support that you would expect in Prototype.js (or Ruby), but without extending any of the built-in JavaScript objects.

  - **[Backbone](http://backbonejs.org/) ([backbonejs.org/](http://backbonejs.org/))** - Backbone.js gives structure to web applications by providing
              models with key-value binding and custom events, collections
              with a rich API of enumerable functions, views with declarative
              event handling, and connects it all to your existing API over a
              RESTful JSON interface.

  - **[Marionette](https://github.com/marionettejs/backbone.marionette) ([github.com/marionettejs/backbone.marionette](https://github.com/marionettejs/backbone.marionette))** - A composite application library for Backbone.js that aims to simplify the construction
      of large scale JavaScript applications.

  - **[Jasmine](http://pivotal.github.com/jasmine/) ([pivotal.github.com/jasmine/](http://pivotal.github.com/jasmine/))** - A behavior-driven development framework for testing JavaScript code.

  - **[jQuery](http://jquery.com/) ([jquery.com](http://jquery.com/))** - A fast and concise JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing,
       event handling, animating, and Ajax interactions

  - **[RequireJS](http://requirejs.org/) ([requirejs.org](http://requirejs.org/))** - A javaScript file and AMD loader

  - **[Sass](http://sass-lang.com/) ([sass-lang.com](http://sass-lang.com/))** - Makes CSS fun again. Sass is an extension of CSS3, adding nested rules, variables,
       mixins, selector inheritance, and more.

-----------------------------
Alternative Method With Bower
-----------------------------
Create a component.json at the root of your project

<pre>
<code>
{
  "name"         : "Your Todo App",
  "dependencies" : {
    "jquery"     : "*",
    "underscore" : "*",
    "requirejs"  : "*",
    "bootstrap"  : "*",
    "backbone"   : "*",
    "marionette" : "*"
  }
}
</code>
</pre>

`$ bower install`


###Today we will be building an **AMD** client side **MV*** project. What do all those letters mean?

> "The Asynchronous Module Definition (AMD) API specifies a mechanism for defining modules such that the module and its dependencies can be asynchronously loaded. This is particularly well suited for the browser environment where synchronous loading of modules incurs performance, usability, debugging, and cross-domain access problems."

If you have ever worked with JavaScript before and realized you have a few thousand line file that is difficult to maintain,
  AMD allows you to break your application into tiny little parts and piece them back together again. Modularity is KEY.

###What about MV*, what is that?

  You may have heard or already know of MVC, a popular design pattern helping improve application organization

  MVC is made up of three core components:

    Model -  Deals with the data for the application
    View - Views are the visual representation of these models
    Controller - the controller of the view / model

  Now that we've defined MVC, we're going to tell you that's not what you're using. Acronyms
  are literally still being invented for frontend-style application development.

###What are the components of the todo application?
- a todo model
- a todo collection

###Where do we put these?

We don't want to clutter up the scripts directory, maybe make a models directory and a collections directory?

Create a `TodoModel.js` in the models directory and a `TodoCollection.js` (or `TodoList.js`, your call) in the collections directory

###Now we have the todo model and the collection of these models, how do we `view` them?

We need a view.

- Where should we put them? Maybe a views directory?

- We don't want HTML in the view itself, that seems like it should be separate? A template maybe?

- Where do we put this template, how do we load it into our application?

Lets create a /templates directory in the root of the application for starters

Loading the template can happen in a variety of ways, with ajax being one transport method.
In today's application we will be using a template loader that creates a re-usable function
executable with data. We will get more into this later.

###What about Routing?

You will need a controller for your application routing. This will control which sections of your page
get rendered on each hash change.

Lets create a `Router.js` in `/js`

###What about our main Application?

A main application file serves as an entry point into our application. We define our application
initializers and attach our application specific config (defined in its own module) /js/config.js.

Lets create this `app.js` in `/js`

###What about Styling?

Styling should be done in a programmatic way, plain 'ol css doesn't cut it anymore. Separation of variables from schematic layout,
the ability to nest your markup and runnable functions in css, all done with the power of Sass.

In order to `watch` your code you will need to install Sass (We will later explain grunt and set up a sass grunt task)

`gem install sass`

While actively changing your .sass files, you will want to watch the main sass file.

We will want to create this `main.scss` in /css

###Now how do I get this sass file loaded when the index is called?

well you will have to run `sass --watch main.scss:main.css`

This will create a main.css file for you to include.

`<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css">`

Now you should be able to write structured organized css and separate the components into their own file.

###What about a build step?

With requirejs and AMD modules we have access to the brilliant r.js optimizer, which allows
you to build your application into single or multiple deployable chunks.

-------------------
Example Directory Structure
-------------------
Your tree and even the files in it may look very different, this is just an example.

      .
      |-- grunt.js
      |-- README.md
      |-- LICENSE.md
      |
      |-- public
          |-- index.html
          |--  assets
          |   |-- ico
          |   |-- img
          |-- doc
          |-- js
          |   |-- app.js
          |   |-- main.js
          |   |-- collections
          |   |   |-- <CollectionName>.js
          |   |-- models
          |   |   |-- <ModelName>.js
          |   |-- lib
          |   |   |-- backbone-<*>.js
          |   |   |-- backbone.marionette-<*>.js
          |   |   |-- underscore-<*>.js
          |   |   |-- jquery-<*>.js
          |   |   |-- tpl.js
          |   |   |-- require-<*>.js
          |   |-- views
          |-- css
          |   |-- main.scss
          |-- templates
